knife-bs
========

# Description

Declarative cloud infrastructure management tool build on top of
[opscode/knife-ec2](https://github.com/opscode/knife-ec2).

Allows declaraction of top level **organizations**, **environments**
(production, staging). Declare instance **profiles** and combine them to
form **stacks**. Stacks and instances can be deployed to **subnets**
within an ec2 **region** and optionally a **vpc**.

Supports custom code execution for fine-tune deployment through the use
of **mixins**

Integrates with [opscode/chef](https://github.com/opscode/chef)

# Installation

## Bundler

Add the following to your `Gemfile`:

    gem 'chef'
    gem 'knife-bs'

## Otherwise

    gem install knife-bs


# Configuration

You have the option of passing your AWS API Key/Secret into the
individual knife subcommands using the `-A` (or `--aws-access-key-id`)
`-K` (or `--aws-secret-access-key`) command options

Chef/knife looks for the config file in ~/.chef/knife.rb. It contains
connection info for AWS (keys, etc.). It can be generated by running:

    knife configure --initial [--defaults]

In order for knife-bs to work, you must add some additional information:

    ...
    knife[:yaml]            = '<PATH TO YOUR bs-atlas.yaml>'
    knife[:mixins]          = '<DIRECTORY WITH CUSTOM USER MIXINS>'

For more details about configuring chef/knife, click
[here](http://docs.opscode.com/config_rb_knife.html)

# bs-atlas.yaml sample

Take a look at the [schema](lib/bs-schema.yaml) to get a feeling for the structure, or use the
sample below to start
```yaml
organizations:
  bitsight:
    domain: bitsighttech.com
    # Only domain is a reserved tag at this level.
    mixin:
      chef:
        # Recipe(s) to apply to each instance in this organization
        run_list:
          - recipe[bs-base]
      volume:
        # Every instance will have its instance storage RAID-ed
        # and mounted to /media/eph
        ephemeral:
          raid:
            name: ephemeral_raid
            level: 0
            mount: /media/eph
      # Every instance within this organization will have
      # an environment variable ORGDOMAIN with value
      # bitsighttech.com
      var:
        ORGDOMAIN: bitsighttech.com
regions:
  east:
    id: us-east-1
    vpc:
      ame1:
        vpcid: vpc-XXXXXXXX
        mixin:
          ami:
            # Sets base AMI to use for instances in this region. Prefix
            # is added to AMIs generated within this region
            base: ami-XXXXXXXX
            prefix: bs
          # VPC environment variable for all instances belonging
          var:
            VPC: ame1
        subnets:
          prd1:
            network: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx/24
            id: prd1
            env: production
            mixin:
              # Availability Zone to use
              az: us-east-1c
          stg1:
            network: xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx/24
            id: stg1
            env: staging
# Environment listing
env:
  staging:
    mixin:
      # Tag the instance with the environment
      tag:
        environment: staging
  production:
    mixin:
      tag:
        environment: prod
stacks:
  # A hadoop cluster with 5 slaves and one master node
  cluster:
    profiles:
      master:
      slave:
        count: 5
profiles:
  master:
    # The last IP octet if used in a subnet
    ipaddress: 16
    # [Instance flavor](http://www.ec2instances.info/)
    type: m2.xlarge
    hostname: ms101
    mixin:
      chef:
        # In addition to base recipe, run master
        run_list:
          - recipe[bs-master]
      tag:
        instance: master
      volume: &EBSMOUNT
        ebs:
          /dev/sdf:
            format: ext4
            mount: /ebs
  slave:
    type: m1.xlarge
    # Hostnames for slaves are rs101, rs102, ... rs199
    hostname: rs1%02d
    mixin:
      ami:
        suffix: -slave
      chef:
        # In addition to base recipe, run slave
        run_list:
          - recipe[bs-slave]
      tag:
        instance: slave
      # Use the same volume configuration, except with
      # explicit volume size
      volume:
        <<: *EBSMOUNT
        size: 200 #GB
```

# Usage

To see the list of commands available type `knife` at the command
line. It shows all the commands available under knife category. Check
the `BS COMMANDS` category for our commands. Each command has its
own set of options, which can be viewed by typing `--help` at the end of
the command. Use `-V` or `-VV` to get more verbose output while running
any command.

For **BS** commands, most of the options are picked up from the
`bs-atlas.yaml` file. This file describes the current state of our AWS
infrastructure as shown above

## [knife bs server create](lib/chef/knife/bs_server_create.rb)

This command is used to spin up instances. Multiple instances can be
created using the `--count NUMBER` flag. Specify ebs volume sizes to
attach to the instance(s) using `--ebs SIZE[,SIZE,...]`. To mock all
calls to AWS, use `--mock`. Omit chef using `--nochef`. If a price tag
is available in the YAML, spot instances will be created by default. To
use on-demand instances, use `--nospot`

See the help text for other options/flags.

## [knife bs server delete](lib/chef/knife/bs_server_delete.rb)

Terminate instances in AWS using wildcards and subnet/environment
specification.

## [knife bs server list](lib/chef/knife/bs_server_list.rb)

Use this command to view what instances are running in a subnet or
environment. See help text for usage

## [knife bs ami create](lib/chef/knife/bs_ami_create.rb)

** Work in Progress **

Uses information from YAML to create new AMIs.

The ami id is calculated automatically. Chef takes care of installing
all the packages and the configuration necessary. For each type of ami
we want to create, the run_list must be specified in the yaml or else
the instance is simply spun up and registered as an AMI. By default a
spot instance is created for AMI generation but it can be overridden by
specifying a command line parameter `--nospot`. This creates an
on-demand instance for AMI generation, when sometimes we don't want to
wait.

## [knife bs bootstrap](lib/chef/knife/bs_bootstrap.rb)

** Work in Progress **

Bootstraps an instance by installing Chef on a running machine and
bringing it under the control of Chef server.

## [knife bs ebs](lib/chef/knife/bs_ebs.rb)

** Work in Progress **

Manage EBS volumes (create, attach, mount)

## [knife bs ebs delete](lib/chef/knife/bs_ebs_delete.rb)

Delete/detach EBS volumes

# v7.1.6 (Open Source)

- New YAML structure (`bs-atlas.yaml`)
    * Adds concept of `stacks` (cluster types) that can be declared
      at the top level. Stacks contain `profiles` (hadoop master,
      hadoop slaves, redis nodes, etc.)
    * Adds concept of environments which can exist across multiple
      EC2 `regions`, `VPC`s and `subnets`
    * Improves volume management by making volume declarations more
      general. Includes syntax for multiple RAID arrays of EBS
      volumes. Allows instance storage (`ephemeral`) to be RAID-ed
      as well.
    * Better integration with chef by allowing runlists to be
      defined at multiple levels and merged together
    * Improved, templated AWS resource tagging using interpolated ruby
      strings within the root configuration context (`@bs`)
- Mixins
    * Adds ability to inherit properties down the heirarchy and
      execute arbitrary code during phases (like before chef, after
      chef, later more granular events will be created) within commands
      like server create and ebs delete.
    * Currently an explicit `mixin` tag is required, will be merged
      with hierarchy attributes soon
    * Mixin packages may be created by users (WIP)
    * Configuration data may be provided at the following levels in
      the YAML:
        * `organization`
        * `environment`
        * `region`
        * `vpc`
        * `subnet`
        * `stack`
        * `profile`
    * Built-in mixins include:
        * `apt` - Sources and packages
        * `cloudconf` - User data on the instance
        * `ddns` - Dynamic DNS
        * `hooks` - Inlined bash commands
        * `ssh_keys` - Public keys for quick access during
          provisioning
        * `var` - Environment variables on the instance
        * `volume` - Block device and local binding
    * As well as simple data inheritance mixins (`qualified`) whose
      schema is defined along with the infrastructure
      (`bs-schema.yaml`)
        * `price` - AWS spot pricing
        * `az` - Availability zone in AWS
        * `tag` - Instance tags (**TODO**: any resource)
        * `chef` - Chef run lists and other settings
        * `ami` - AMI information for provisioning
        * `sg` - AWS security groups
        * `route-tbl` - AWS routing tables
    * Custom mixin file structure:
        * `MIXIN-NAME`
            * `mixin.rb` - Contains methods
- Cleanup
    * Removed hardcoded and bitsight-specific defaults
    * Refactored limitations of some functions and removed assumed
      behavior
    * Removed `bs_kill_spare.rb`, moved functionality into
      `bs_server_delete.rb`
    * Automatic ephemeral drive configuration based on flavor
      information provided by
      [Fog](https://github.com/fog/fog). `Fog` version `1.20` is
      required, which is included in `knife-ec2` version
      [0.8.0](https://github.com/opscode/knife-ec2/commits/0.8.0)
